'\" e  @(#)cutest_ubandh v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_ubandh 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_ubandh \- CUTEst tool to extract a banded matrix out of the Hessian
matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ubandh( status, n, goth, X, nsemib, BANDH, lbandh )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_ubandh subroutine extracts the elements which lie within a band
of given semi-bandwidth out of the Hessian matrix of the objective
function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecode\fP at the point X.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to the simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_ubandh are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B goth \fP[in] - integer
a logical variable which specifies whether the second derivatives of
the groups and elements have already been set (goth = .TRUE.) or if
they should be computed (goth = .FALSE.),
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
when GOTH = .FALSE., the derivatives will be evaluated at X. Otherwise
X is not used.
.TP
.B nsemib \fP[in] - integer
the required semi-bandwidth, i.e., the number of bands directly below
the diagonal of the Hessian.
.TP
.B BANDH \fP[out] - real/double precision
a two-dimensional array of dimension (0:lbandh,n) which gives the
lower triangular part of the band segment of the Hessian. The diagonal
entry in column i is returned in location BANDH(0,i), while the entry
j places below the diagonal in column i may be found in location
BANDH(j,i),
.TP
.B lbandh \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared size of the leading dimension of BANDH (with
lbandh no smaller than nsemib). N.B. the leading component of BANDH
includes the index 0 so strictly, the size of the leading dimension is
lbandh + 1.
.LP
.SH NOTE
goth should be set to .TRUE. whenever
.TP 3
(1) a call has been made to CUTEST_udh, CUTEST_ush, CUTEST_ugrdh or 
CUTEST_ugrsh at the current point, or 
.TP
(2) a previous call to CUTEST_ubandh, with goth = .FALSE., 
at the current point has been made.
.TP
Otherwise, it should be set .FALSE.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecode(1).
