'\" e  @(#)cutest_cscfg v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_cscfg 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cscfg \- CUTEst tool to evaluate constraint functions values and
possibly gradients in sparse format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cscfg( data, status, n, m, X, C, 
nnzj, lj, J_val, J_var, J_fun, grad )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cscfg subroutine evaluates the values of the constraint functions of
the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecode\fP
at the point X, and possibly their gradients. The gradients are
stored in sparse format.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l (x) ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u (x),
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable 
and all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP
.SH NOTE
This function is obsolete and has been included for compatibility
purposes only. Refer to cutest_ccfsg(3M).
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecode(1).
