'\" e  @(#)cutest_cscifg v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_cscifg 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cscifg \- CUTEst tool to evaluate a single constraint function value and
possibly gradient in sparse format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cscifg( data, status, n, icon, X, ci, 
nnzgci, lgci, GCI_val, GCI_var, grad )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cscifg subroutine evaluates the value of a particular constraint
function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecode\fP
at the point X, and possibly its gradient. The gradient is stored in sparse
format.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l (x) ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u (x),
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and 
all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP
.SH NOTE
This function is obsolete and has been included for compatibility
purposes only. Refer to cutest_ccifsg(3M).
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecode(1).
